---
layout: post
title: "Who I Am"
date: 2014-09-12 22:06:40 -0700
comments: true
categories: [dev]
---

Yeah, I'm a noob, but everyone starts somewhere.

I am a twenty-year-old living in San Francisco, and I'm about to start intensive software development training at Dev Bootcamp, the recently established coding school that has, in a mere two years, pioneered an all-new, avant-garde genre in the field of education. What led me here? Less than two years ago I was a geography major at a ritzy liberal arts college in Vermont, and now I'm in San Francisco studying to become a programmer? After completing my first year of college, I took what I thought would be a semester off to save money ($60,000 tuition + meager family income meant lots of debt, fast) and do some introspection. My life from 9th grade-on had been a pre-written (and admittedly boring) script, slaving away at academic work just to get in to my dream college. Taking a step off the proverbial treadmill seemed like just the thing to clear my mind and devote some time to myself. So being the geography nerd that I was (and still am), I traveled around the US for a couple months, and then and spent some time teaching and translating in the Middle East. But before I knew it, the grand adventure had ended, and it was time to return to academia... Except when I returned, my perspective had changed. The whole I was in school, I never gave it much critical thought --- ironically enough, I gave plenty of critical thought to the works of literature I studied, but not to the education itself. Coming back, facing the sky-high price tag and questionable practicality of my liberal arts education, I decided to extend my leave...(dramatic pause) *indefinitely*.

So I worked for a while, got some financial freedom, but was soon ready for something bigger and better... and boy, let me tell you, the prospect of enrolling in community college classes just *didn't* have that spark I was looking for. And that's why I'm here. Writing this blog. Studying programming. Challenging the status quo by putting off college and learning something completely different, in a setting I didn't even know existed a year ago. I had always been a fan and avid user of technology, but for whatever reason didn't consider going into it. I never thought I had what it took to be a programmer... Well, turns out I'm wrong.

Programming isn't about holing up and doing weird esoteric math-like things all day. It's about logical thinking and familiarizing yourself with languages to express that thinking. It's about creation. And what better field is there than one that will pay you to think? And one that allows you to integrate your passions into the work that you do?

I'm disillusioned with the status quo. I'm excited about learning how to learn, about challenging myself in unprecedented ways. I intend this blog to be a means through which I synthesize new information, mostly to help me organize make connections between ideas, but also theoretically to help other noobs like myself navigate this new world.
