---
layout: post
title: "Calm Before the Storm: Phase 0 Reflections"
date: 2014-11-07 15:33:49 -0800
comments: true
categories: [culture]
---
Here are some reflections as I finish up my penultimate week of Phase 0. This is going to be more of a Joycean, stream-of-consciousness thing rather than something with even a modicum of structure, just to warn whoever might be reading this. First of all, oh man - I can't believe how quickly these weeks have been passing. I think there must be a magic recipe to have time fly: just enough work and mental stimulation to keep you busy and thinking on your feet, but not enough to stress you out or overwhelm you. That is exactly what Phase 0 has been. I was challenged just enough so that I didn't feel bored, but not too much as to resemble the stereotyped, never-ending 9-5 work week that Americans hate but do anyway. I realize the intensive phases will not be as leisurely and balanced as Phase 0 has been, but honestly I'm ready for a challenge. Staying at home 5 days a week, while perfectly pleasant, is not the most stimulating environment. Let's just say 9 weeks of Phase 0 is a good amount. Anything greater and I'd start to get a little stir crazy.

Now, as for material: it's pretty neat to see my progress, even though it's not that obvious. My mind is just far more used to thinking like a programmer, and my familiarity with Ruby especially makes it so that I have many tools in my arsenal to tackle almost any logic challenge. JavaScript has been a bit of a struggle, though I am determined to overcome my aversion to it, since it seems significantly more important in the overall software development world than Ruby (client-side && server-side, whereas Ruby is just server-side). This is especially true with maps and mapping software, as much of the functionality is done on the client-side... and because I am obsessed with maps, I will need to become obsessed with JS! Hmm, what else? I think after doing a fair amount of both front-end and back-end, I can say that I prefer to technical challenge of back-end stuff, though I like that, in the snap of a finger, you can see front-end changes. An ideal place for me, perhaps, would be the back-end of the front-end, if such a place exists. I want to work on things that have visual components, but I don't want to just be tinkering around with changing font-sizes, padding, and margin.

So, here I am, 9 days away from Phase 1. I look forward to delving into Ruby for the first few weeks. I am keeping in mind the cultural components of DBC and remembering that this is a kitchen and we are all cooks. I can't expect anything to be served to me; I expect to create and co-create and have full autonomy over what I do. I want to check in with myself every once in a while to make sure I am sticking to my goals. As I am 20 years old and without a college degree, I have so many doubts and insecurities that I will continue to try to whisk away to the best of my ability. Who would hire me? But I need to keep the faith that the status quo is changing and that, at least in the tech world, a B.A. doesn't mean nearly as much as an impressive technical interview or even a single cool code project. I think being in the DBC environment will really help me gain confidence, insha'Allah.
